---
layout: page
title: "Pet BAG"
permalink: /projects/artifact_1/
description: "A pet boarding application demonstrating software design, data management, and security enhancements."
---

[Browse Original Artifact](https://github.com/C-Glee/c-glee.github.io/tree/main/projects/artifact_1/original)

[Browse Enhanced Artifact](https://github.com/C-Glee/c-glee.github.io/tree/main/projects/artifact_1/enhanced)

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This artifact is the *Pet Boarding And Grooming (Pet BAG)* application from IT-145: Foundations in Application Development. It was originally created in June of 2024 and was an introductory assignment to algorithmic logic and Java. The original assignment involved creating a Pet.java class and pseudocode for the check-in method of a hypothetical Pet BAG application. This artifact was selected for enhancement due to both it being created a year ago and because of the barebones implementation. The enhancement showcases the ability to improve on algorithmic logic and write readable, modular, and maintainable code. By reviewing the initial draft of the *Pet.java* class file and the pseudocode for the check-in method, I was able to carefully consider what the requirements of a functioning Pet BAG progrma would look like and what would need to be reworked or implemented to achieve them. This meant considering what variables, data structures, and classes were necessary for the pgroam, what the main loop of the program would be, and the methods required to bring the desired functionality to the new version of Pet BAG. This enhancements demonstrates both a growth in my understanding of algorithmic logic and coding capabilities as well as my ability to take an incomplete design for a project and extrapolate the requirements for it while developing the prototype into a fully-fledged application. The enhanced artifact stores pet data persistently and allows the user to check in, update information, check out, or view currently boarded pets through the console. Any changes made are saved to a pets.txt which is loaded on application start.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Enhancing this artifact was more like refactoring it from the ground up. The Pet.java class was a decent jumping off point, but the pseudocode required a lot of logical overhauls. After reviewing the Pet.java class and adding the variables that were missing, as well as corresponding setters and getters, I also added a simple toString method that I planned to use later. Creating the main body of the Pet BAG program began with a simple consideration of the requirements and how they could be delivered. This began with the main menu loop and from there the methods for checking in a pet, viewing pets, and checking out a pet were added one by one. Afterward, I figured that the ability to update a pet through the check-in method was an addition that made sense even if it was not in the original enhancement plan. Determining how to handle this turned out to be the biggest challenge. Originally, I struggled determining how to best handle returning customers and implemented a returning customer branch that I felt was lackluster. This involved two separate check in methods, one that determined if the user was a repeat customer and then sent either a specific Pet (located by ID) to the true check-in function or a new (blank) Pet. This was reworked and ultimately removed in favor of a single check in method which prompts the user if they are updating a pet and, if not, proceeds with normal check in. The last methods added were those which managed the Pet data and handled reading and writing the pet data to an external file. After these were added to the program and tested to ensure they functioned correctly, I determined it would be best to move the date handling to its own module. Thus the PetDataManager.java class was created and the method to read the Pet data from a file was made more robust so that it can handle malformed or improperly formatted lines (and log the lines that encountered errors). Now that the enhancement is complete, I can clearly see the difference between the original artifact and how both it and I have developed. The enhancement allowed me to demonstrate the skills, technique, and knowledge I’ve accrued while giving me the chance to continue to learn and improve. This enhancement required research into string formatting to achieve both more readable code and well-formatted outputs for the user.

---
