---
layout: page
title: "ABCU Advising"
permalink: /projects/artifact_2/
description: "An advising application demonstrating an understanding of data structures and algorithmic logic."
---

[Browse Original Artifact](https://github.com/C-Glee/c-glee.github.io/tree/main/projects/artifact_2/original)

[Browse Enhanced Artifact](https://github.com/C-Glee/c-glee.github.io/tree/main/projects/artifact_2/enhanced)

---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This artifact is the ABCU Advising application from CS-300: Data Structures and Algorithms: Analysis and Design. This application is written in C++ and was originally created in May of 2025. The original artifact was an ABCU Advising.cpp file which contained code to parse data from a CSV file, load that data into a Binary Search Tree, list all courses, and search for a specific course. This artifact was seleccted for my portfolio to showcase skils related to the implementation of data structures and the relevant algorithms for each. Custom class implementations of these structures, *CourseTree*, *CourseHashTable*, and *CourseLinkedList*, were used to demonstrate an understanding of each structure. The implementation of CourseTable’s insertion, destruction, and traversal methods demonstrate an understanding of recursive algorithms, dynamic memory allocation, and sorted data retrieval. The implementation of CourseHashTable demonstrates an understanding of hash functions, bucket arrays, and collision handling via vectors. The implementation of CourseLinkedList demonstrates understanding in pointer manipulation, node chaining, appending nodes, and sequential search. The side-by-side implementation and comparison of these structures demonstrates both an understanding of the structures themselves and the algorithms which are required to construct, destruct, and traverse them. Lastly, a centralStorage vector was used to hold a canonical list of data, while pointers to this data are held in each of the data structures to preserve data integrity and avoid duplicated memory despite the use of several data structures to handle the same data.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The enhanced artifact is both more robust and technically advanced compared to its original iteration. The program has been re-designed to be signficantly more modular, more readable, parse CSVs in a more robust manner, handle several parallel data structures, and benchmark performance. The original single-file C++ application has been split into several modules which separately handle CSV parsing, the data structures (binary search tree, linked list, hash table, and course), and the main loop of the program. This greatly improves the original artifact's readability, maintainbility, and reuseability. Rather than just a BinarySearchTree, the enhanced artifact makes use of a vector for central storage as well as a binary search tree, linked list, and hash table for storing the list of courses. These structures have their traversal and search performance benchmarked, a completely new addition to the program. Both the full-traversal and search performance of each structure are measured in nanoseconds across thousands of iterations. Afterward, the average for each is calculated and the fastest data structure is highlighted for the user.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The enhancements of this artifact were successful in meeting the intended course outcomes. The intended outcomes were two, three, and four. Outcome two is designing, developing, and delivering professional quality oral, written, and visual communications. Outcome three is designing and evaluating computing solutions that solve a problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices/standards appropriate to the solution while weighing trade-offs involved in design choices. Outcome four is demonstrating an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills and tools in computing practices to implement computer solutions which deliver value and accomplish goals. All three of these outcomes are met by the enhancements of this artifact. Additionally, this artifact demosntrates outcome five, develop a security mindset that anticipates exploits, exposes vulnerabilities, and mitigates design flaws. The enhanced artifact parses data in a robust and safe way while handling erroneous inputs in a way that avoids crashes or errors and maintains expected behavior. Outcome one, strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision-making, is also met by this enhancement. While this is an outcome that is largely met through professional and respectful behavior, a large part of a collaboration when it comes to developing software lies in documentation and the code itself. The code is more thoroughly commented, and the project has been refactored to become more readable and maintainable. All of these elements foster collaboration among multiple developers. 

---
